Privacy, Community, Power
Verus consensus non emitur
“True consensus cannot be bought” - anonymous

Michael J. Toutonghi

Michael F. Toutonghi
June 12, 2018

Alex R. English

June 12, 2018
Abstract
The Verus Project aims to establish a secure, privacy-centric, fairly-distributed
cryptocurrency. But – beyond this currency – Verus seeks to become much more than
a zero-knowledge privacy coin, one with two completely new highly-decentralizing proof
of work and proof of stake algorithms.
In addition to payments, decentralization, and privacy features, Verus Project
plans include its direct use as a currency for provisioning scalable and secure public blockchains as a service (PBaaS), for Verus applications built upon these parallel
chains to scale. What this will do is simple: It will enable all people – as well as
all nodes on the Verus network to participate in and benefit from a decentralized,
blockchain service economy.
This paper details the Verus vision and describes the function of Verus as its own
platform, and also as a member of the Komodo platform ecosystem, in the context of its
first applications. Verus core applications will provide a foundation to build additional
applications and services, which will leverage Verus’ automatically created blockchains,
called autochains. Autochains – or PBaaS – will be provisioned and notarized by the
Verus blockchain miners and stakers, in exchange for Verus currency.
Autochains will be validated through proof-of-stake by their user populations. In
addition to extremely scalable, dynamic, publicly-secured autochain applications, this
will add a dynamic isolation and security component to applications that can also
create, manage, and verify transactions on the main Verus chain or any other Komodocompatible, Crypto-Conditions [17], Interledger Protocol [25] enabled blockchains.
The ways we apply this technology to our world – to our biggest contemporary
challenges – has the potential to completely remake the fabric of our society.

1

Preface
Human progress leapt forward with the invention of money. Money enabled worldwide,
trade-based economies to move from a primitive, barter-based system to a consensus-based
valuation and accounting of verifiable, storable, divisible, and scarce commodities as early
currencies of exchange.
Even in recent times, actual or perceived scarcity and authenticity of source, whether
genuine gold, an original giant coin of Micronesia [27] – or government backed notes with
trusted fiscal management and the ability to exchange for oil – provide the foundation of
value upon which, ultimately, human resources are bought and sold.
What blockchain does is straightforward. It enables the creation of cryptographic tools
and applications that do nothing less than provide us with a new future of programmable
money. This programmable money integrates directly with existent accounting functions
and, eventually, with all automated services. Blockchain technologies provide humans with
a new, verifiable solution to ensure scarcity, authenticity of source, inbuilt transferability,
fungibility through privacy, and programmable rules. More than that, fully peer to peer,
public blockchains disintermediate and provide tools that offer the opportunity to revitalize our economic systems and societies, potentially creating a more equitable and honest
economic framework for all.

About This Document
This vision paper is not intended as a technical reference, but as a vehicle to communicate
our vision, our plans, and our thinking – as we work on realizing the true potential of Verus.
All technologies described are based on a clear understanding of methods intended to
implement each solution but – as with any project – the specific implementation details will
be refined as we actually realize their functionality. To supplement this vision paper, we
will follow soon after its initial release with a white paper, describing the new technologies
developed for Verus Coin’s initial launch, what benefits they provide, and provide details of
their implementation. We will continue to supplement this vision paper with white papers,
as appropriate, for each completed phase of Verus Coin’s development, in the future.
As of this point, we have completed Phase 1, having released Verus Coin with zero
knowledge privacy, two brand new algorithms combined for simultaneous CPU-mineable
proof of work (POW) and fair proof of stake (POS) consensus, in-wallet mining and staking
on PCs, leverage of and support for advanced Komodo platform technologies, and wallets
and miners for every major PC operating system.

2

1

Introduction

Information vies for our attention in today’s digital world, trying to convince us of what
product to use or which politician to believe. We are watched and measured as we react to
that information, in order to convince us what to buy or to believe. This is an active process
that exploits our lack of online privacy – combined with weaknesses in human psychology –
in order to make profit; extracting value from, even affecting our behavior, learning about
and influencing each of us individually to open our wallets or add our voices to another’s
agenda.
No single person can digest and fully understand – let alone verify – a fraction of the
information thrust at us in daily life. We are told to give up on the notion of privacy and to
trust networks of companies with our most private data, our identity, our credit histories, our
location, our habits. We are also told that our voices are lost in the digital sea of information.
Yet how is this the same sea through which we are laser-targeted based on correlating our
behaviors to learn so much about us, individually? What if these technologies could be
turned towards the benefit of society, first – and then allowed to support businesses, in that
context?
We on the Verus team believe it is possible to support businesses and governments
requirements with digital systems that: 1) respect your privacy, 2) give you control over
your data, and 3) enable you to speak your mind with the anonymous authority of an
authorized voter or member of a community, in a way that can directly be heard and affect
actual change.
Before we explain how, it would help to understand the shared beliefs behind our vision
for Verus. These beliefs underpin everything we build into the Verus network:
1. We believe that every human has ideas, knowledge, and value to contribute to our
society. By using technology to reward people for their contributions, we can enable
each of our verifiable, yet anonymous voices to be heard as a collective truth.
2. We believe that those who contribute positively over time to the system should be
rewarded for that contribution and provided with ongoing incentive.
3. We believe that a world-scale, peer-to-peer system that can enable humans to be
queried directly, confidentially, verifiably – and in a transparent manner – can directly
provide populations of people and the world with valuable, transformative tools.
With Verus, we will introduce digital tools to enable us all to build a better world
together. We will monetarily incentivize – with our technologies – behavior that strengthens
communities and institutions. This is the thing that’s missing in the online world today:
Fiscal incentive for communal behavior built into the very fabric of its function.
The Verus Project’s tools will make it easy to create an identity – or multiple identities
– on the Verus multi-blockchain system, which can accumulate value and even have multiple
personas, each to represent a facet of your identity as a whole. This reflects how we might
express identity in our personal or professional lives, where some situations call for provable credibility, yet others require no more information than what you might reveal when
encountering a casual stranger.
3

Each identity will have its own, unique address. Unless its owner reveals information
to link two or more identities, it is cryptographically hard – meaning virtually impossible
– to correlate one identity to another. At the same time, the owner of an identity can still
cryptographically verify statements made about identities under their control, attesting to
identity properties (such as passport, age, height, citizenship, photo, etc.) as strongly as
is possible with today’s digital technology. As part of the Verus vision, to be described in
more detail in later phases, we intend to support fully decentralized verification of identities
that can provide as strong verification as today’s centralized systems. At the same time, we
believe it is important for practical reasons to enable compatibility with centralized forms of
identity and to enable people to optionally support KYC in identities. To enable a smooth
bridge between centralized and decentralized identity systems, today’s ID systems, including
biometric and government issued IDs, will be supported via centralized or decentralized
verification to enable use of Verus identity in situations that require conformance to knowyour-customer (KYC) regulations. Theseforms of ID, however, are not required to establish
or use even strong, decentralized identities on the Verus network.
Verus autochains, will operate parallel to the main Verus chain and enable large-scale
applications – such as polls or elections – to run simultaneously without concern for congestion or excessive fees. Autochains will enable poll application users to provision their
own secure blockchains just by using the application – spawning dynamic parallel chains
that can process thousands (or potentially millions) of transactions per second when needed.
Autochains will operate by proof of stake, enabling each chain to have security isolated to
its direct user population. Autochains will also be backed by Verus notarization and block
time synchronization – providing the full weight of its PoW/PoS security layer as well as the
Komodo platform’s delayed proof of work (dPoW), to provide notarization all the way back
to the full power of the actual Bitcoin blockchain.
For Phase II, what we expect to be an extended development phase, we will work to
implement autochains and their first application in the world. We will eventually use them
to create, secure, scale, and perform polls for everything from classifying online content,
to identifying real public opinion, to actual, real-time elections for an organization or –
conceivably – a government.
Our goal is to make these polls easy to use from a PC or mobile device, yet industrial
strength and suitable for serious, secure elections. They will leverage the latest cryptographic
technologies for privacy – known as zero-knowledge proofs – to preserve confidentiality.
They will be:
• Confidential — No one but the voter knows who or what they voted for – unless the
voter discloses. Results of the vote can be withheld until the vote is complete, at which
time they can be released to everyone, simultaneously.
• Verifiable — Only voters that are authorized to vote can vote. Each voter can vote
only once. Each voter can look at the released results and see that their vote was
counted.
• Transparent — Anyone can validate the number of votes counted, and the number
of votes,each person or selection received.

4

• Secure — Our novel autochains – dynamic, security isolated, proof-of-stake (PoS)
blockchains – are layered over proof-of-work (PoW) and delayed proof-of-work (dPoW)
security, all the way back to the real Bitcoin blockchain through Komodo.
By default, the first layer of security is run by the actual voters, themselves. Together,
this provides unprecedented layered security both in the autochain and in delayed
proof-of-work, leveraging the network with the most hash power in the world.
We like to think that – on a Verus autochain – a 51% attack is called winning a poll.
• Scalable — Each poll is conducted on its own, automatically-created-and-validated
blockchain, operating under its own visible validation rules.

2

Our Vision for Verus Foundational Applications

Throughout history, understanding what a population truly thinks or feels has been an
invaluable capability. The manipulation of that understanding can, and has, repeatedly
changed the course of history.
The Verus Project plans to use highly decentralized blockchain technology to enable all
people to safely, anonymously, and confidently express their opinions – on any issue. Verus
users will be able to share their knowledge in a public forum, query a population of humans
(or eventually both AIs and humans), quickly and effectively, and – importantly – earn
cryptocurrency in exchange for these contributions to collective knowledge.
A primary goal of the Verus Project is to enable societies and organizations to make
decisions based on a more honest understanding of the public’s actual beliefs. To achieve
this goal, we consider the need for both confidentiality and transparency, to ensure that – first
and foremost – the system can be trusted. It is also critical to prioritize decentralization and
develop a core platform that can leverage fully transparent blockchain technologies, while
running many applications that respect privacy. With Verus, these applications can leverage
zero-knowledge succinct non-interactive arguments of knowledge – or zk-SNARKs – the most
reliable and tested iteration of proven, zero-knowledge privacy technology available today.
Our novel approach ensures that this technology can be used at scale, across any population size, throughout the world. Using the tested-at-scale infrastructure and tools of the
Komodo platform, and Verus planned development of PBaaS – the Verus developers will
build human organizational tools, including voting and fully self-sovereign identity with a
reputation system that respects privacy. The goal, here, is a significant one, and these tools
are planned in a way to allow entire human populations to transparently and directly share
their knowledge and opinions – without the risk of privacy violation, spin or censorship.
Verus tools will also leverage human (and eventually non-human) intelligence at scale
to solve previously challenging problems in a decentralized manner – financially rewarding
those who contribute to their proper function.
To serve all people in the world simultaneously with these public, peer-to-peer tools,
Verus introduces autochains. Autochains are a novel scaling model for blockchain systems.
Autochains will enable full node miners to provide public blockchain provisioning services.
These services will occur in transient, parallel chains, chains that are isolated from congestion,
disruption, or interference from the main Verus blockchain. As an autochain operates, it is
5

almost completely parallel and isolated from the main Verus chain, except for the capability
of posting transactions and proofs to Verus, for results and coordination across applications
or people.
By combining privacy, polls at scale, and identity, Verus can be used to post polls and
ask almost any question of a population or subpopulation of people, receive an honest – and,
importantly – verifiable answer, and still respect the privacy of the respondents. When even
the first support for polling is active on the Verus network, the Verus community will be
able to vote on the long term direction of the Verus Project, itself.
Over time, Verus polls – used for purposes such as determining the accuracy of news
online, for research, or even for political polling, will be combined with machine learning
to enable all of us, as a society, to benefit directly from our collective intelligence without
today’s risks to our individual privacy. Verus will combine auditability and verifiability of
transactions with the option of verified, confidential participation – meaning societies and
organizations can directly understand what people think, feel, and believe, as populations –
without taking control of their personal data or targeting some individuals, based on their
answers or beliefs.
Ultimately, our vision for the Verus Project is to enable us all to directly participate
in our own worldwide economy. Verus applications will enable any individual to speak up
with the power of an authorized participant – and with the confidence of anonymity – to
produce a verifiable, transparent, and honest flow of information throughout the globe. It
will transform the way that anonymity functions in our current technological environment –
prioritizing cooperation and providing the financial incentive for that cooperation to occur.

3

Important Verus Concepts

The longer term Verus Project vision of a better society through public blockchain services
relies upon three fundamental pillars –where the correct operation of each strengthens the
others in the form of a virtuous circle.
These pillars are:
1. Extreme transaction throughput and scalable decentralized applications with autochains,
which provide public blockchains as a service (PBaaS)
2. Selectively strong, private identity, and
3. Open application support with a foundation of polls, voting, and lottery selection
services.
Each of these pillars will help us process human knowledge, understanding, and/or opinion on any content or topic. Together, they will enable direct querying – with confidential
and truthful – answers across an entire population. It will create a secure, public platform
that respects privacy, and can potentially serve as the foundation of a more respectful society.
It is also important to know about the the concept of Verus Virtue when reading further
in this document. The best way to think about Virtue for the purposes of this document
is as a separate currency that can be earned, but not purchased or sold, and is part of the
6

evolution of the Verus proof-of-stake algorithm, slated for later phases of the Verus project.
Proof of Virtue is a technology that will be described in much greater detail and implemented
in later phases of the Verus project.

3.1

Autochains

With Verus, we plan to create a platform upon which we will build voting and even election
systems that support our vision of enabling a better society through blockchain.
To run simultaneous polls across disparate populations on one blockchain-based system,
we need another dimension of information – one that retains privacy, and is anchored to a
primary store of value, Verus.
One approach to creating another dimension of meaning would be a system of “coloring.”
The Ethereum blockchain system and some layers over Bitcoin or Bitcoin compatible coins
use a version of a coloring system. [5][6][7][8]. While, at first glance, this seems like a
reasonable approach, it is actually a suboptimal solution, at best.
With Ethereum and the ICO experiences of 2017 [9][10], we now know what happens when
you create one blockchain and overload it with transactions: Congestion and unnecessarily
high fees. Developers have proposed many solutions to this problem of scaling – including
a move to proof-of-stake systems and sharding (effectively trying to separate the various

7

functions on a blockchain), or even a move to large systems of parallel chains with a common
design.
Yet instead of implementing a “solution” with colored coins sharing one blockchain, we
have decided to take a completely new approach to this problem. Our approach will not
only provide an extra dimension of information and an unlimited number of token types,
or “colors”, but it will do so with highly scalable PBaaS autochains, which also reward
Verus miners and node operators as provisioning agents. This is a novel method of scaling,
one which provides significant scale and security benefits through isolation of transaction
processing for each application instance on its own blockchain.
Rather than thinking of Verus as a single blockchain, it is more appropriate
to think of it as a blockchain-based system, one that is rooted in a primary value
chain.
Autochains are exactly what they sound like – automatically instantiated blockchains
that are validated initially – and when notarizing – by Verus miners, and otherwise, only by
their users, often a disjoin set from the whole of Verus users. Autochains, once instantiated,
can be used indefinitely or can have a finite lifetime to be used for a specific purpose. In
this document, we will often discuss autochains in the context of a few concrete applications
that we intend to implement on the Verus network. It is important to keep in mind that
their versatility is basically unlimited. Due to their security being inherited from the main
Verus chain, autochains eliminate perhaps the biggest disadvantage that creating consensusbased distributed ledger applications suffers from: Weak defense against attacks in their
earliest stages.
In Phase II, Verus will define an autochain provisioning protocol, and specific voting
protocols, based on blockchain transactions. These protocols will include zero knowledge
proofs, Crypto Conditions [17], and Interledger Protocol [25] technologies to provide proper
incentive for all participants to engage in the automatic creation and use of on-demand,
isolated or public blockchains, ones that rest on a secure, public foundation.
The autochain protocol will also provide the ability to place a value on the data generated
by the autochain’s operation. This value will then either be released to the public or paid
out, through rewards, to the participants in the creation of that data. This creates a model
that incentivizes release of learning and information to the public – also making applications
which do so much less expensive to run.
For Verus poll applications, validation will default to a form of proof-of-stake (PoS),
where all members of the chain are stakers. This is because that security model matches
exactly the interests of the majority of voters in having an accurate record. Because PoS does
not involve powerful mining equipment or competition to solve a cryptographic puzzle, it can
operate on much less powerful hardware– even on mobile devices. Since voters, themselves,
secure the chain simply by running the voting software, poll chains are generally not affected
by activity on the main Verus chain (except when posting interledger transactions). In
addition, an autochain’s operation, independent of scale, adds no overhead or congestion to
the main Verus chain’s transaction load – besides the transactions to provision the poll chain
and post results back to the main chain itself.
Since we want to be able to create autochains from clients that may not be running full
nodes or even own stable IP addresses, full nodes will be incentivized to provide reliable
static node support for autochains. Once they provide this support, they will be recognized
8

by validators on the autochain. They will then be able to use this recognition to boost their
reputation for selection in future lotteries.
By advertising autochain node support on the main blockchain – along with a stable
payment address via a transaction – the node IP can be selected in a random lottery. The
Eigentrust ratings of all nodes can then be recorded by all other nodes that serve the chain
at regular intervals. Nodes which consistently offer better QoS will get better ratings. Nodes
that get poorly rated will still share in the node rewards for the current blockchain – but
will be less likely to be selected in the next node lottery.

9

3.2
3.2.1

The Virtue Autochain
Roots of Trust in Distributed Consensus

The Bitcoin [14] proof of work implementation introduced the world to systems that establish
trust, not due to belief in any individual human’s behavior, but based on the tendency of
humans to act in their own self-interest.
The Bitcoin protocol rewards winners of a contest, referred to as “miners”, in statistical
proportion to the computing power they employ to “mine” for Bitcoin, as compared to the
total computing power of all miners. For every block of validated transactions added to
the Bitcoin blockchain, someone wins a competition to earn the right to define that block
while adhering to specific, verifiable rules. The competition involves verifiably solving a
statistical mathematical puzzle that is specific to exactly that block, meaning the same work
cannot be reused on any other block. The winner of each competition earns the right to
accurately process the next block of pending Bitcoin transactions and to claim a specific
measure of Bitcoin, called the “block reward” (plus fees of all transactions in the block that
was processed).
Mining competition serves to determine the amount of computing power a would-be
attacker would have to control in order to mine of blocks that were not earned according to
the intended rules, execute transactions that might otherwise be rejected, and prevent certain
transactions from executing altogether. Based on the way that miners achieve consensus
on what is the correct chain, forging a false Bitcoin chain to achieve this would require
an attacker to control more than 50% of the total power of all miners – both honest and
byzantine.
Since, right now, it is likely infeasible for any single actor to mount such an attack against
Bitcoin, the largest network of hash power today, this type of competition, called proof-ofwork (PoW), currently manages hundreds of billions of dollars of value, sends transactions of
that value to anyone, anywhere, at any time, and does this all without any company, bank,
or trusted third party, of any kind.
In addition to enabling secure management of large sums of money, PoW has also sparked
a mining arms race and significant investment in computing power to claim Bitcoins and other
cryptocurrencies, creating the equivalent of the world’s largest distributed supercomputer
doing nothing but the same calculations, albeit on different data, over and over again. As
a result, one side effect of the public blockchains’ PoW security system is massive power
consumption and significant ecological cost.
Due to this, a great deal of research and development has gone into alternative consensus
mechanisms [11][12][13]. Most serious PoW alternatives center around the concept of proofof-stake (PoS) – the idea, that by putting something at stake commensurate with the value
being transacted in the transaction flow, a rational staking person, known as a “validator,”
will choose good behavior within the ecosystem, so as not to lose their “stake.”
Even though large systems are being built that depend on 100% PoS, there remains
controversy over its robustness when users have incompatible interests, or when an attacker’s
stake is not valued as highly as the perceived value to be gained by corrupting the system.
Most modern PoS and PoW systems make a fundamental assumption about all miners; that they are either ‘byzantine’, and intend to compromise the system as a whole, or

10

‘rational’, in statistically the same proportions for all participants equally. One need only
consider that if there was a way to learn a more accurate statistical function for each participant’s probability of being either byzantine or rational, using such a function to determine
who participates in the system’s validation would improve its resistance to attack.
In fact, any accurate method of recognizing those who were attempting to strengthen
the system – and thus who could statistically be more trusted than a byzantine or even
average participant – could both decrease the power consumption and ecological cost of
blockchain security and further strengthen resistance to attack. This then brings up the
question: “How do we recognize trustworthy participants?”
Some methods studied and proven effective are the Eigentrust reputation management
algorithm [20], and its improved derivative the Eigentrust++ mechanism implemented in the
NEM blockchain [22]. Originally designed by Sep Kamvar, Mario Glosser and Hector GarciaMolina in 2003, the Eigentrust algorithm is built to function on peer-to-peer networks. It
aims to isolate byzantine actors in said networks by assigning each peer a public, global trust
value based on their history of activity – clearly displaying a form of “rating” for each peer.
Those with lower ratings are shown not to be trustworthy, and thus, are interacted with less
by their peers.
Simply put, the algorithm assumes that if any given peer a trusts any given peer b,
then it would also trust the peers trusted by b. Every peer calculates a local trust value
for each other peer it has interacted with, based on the either satisfactory or unsatisfactory
transactions it has had with each one. These local trust values are determined by each peer,
and when peer a wants to know if they should trust peer b, say, before making a transaction,
peer a would ask all other peers it knows to report on their local trust values of peer b and
weigh their responses according to the trust values peer a has for each of them.
3.2.2

Proof of Virtue (PoV) Reward System

Using a model similar to the EigenTrust algorithm, Verus will introduce the idea of Proof of
Virtue (PoV) enhancement to the PoS algorithm initially released in Phase I. In PoV, we
intend to weight staking contests with both Verus stake and “Virtue”, a special “currency”,
expected to be tracked on a Virtue autochain, and used as a trust rating of identities within
the network.
In a similar way to the “amount of stake” used when staking, Virtue will add another
component to the probability of being selected to process a block of transactions on the
Verus Network. Its probabilities upon introduction will not change returns on the Verus PoS
system, but addresses will gradually be able to improve earnings with a Virtue weighting –
based on recorded activity and behavior.
In order to ensure that Virtue is both a rare and valued property, which drives correct
behavior, it will neither be purchased, nor sold. Verus holders will have opportunities to
earn a small measure of Virtue, which can then be further increased by staking the Virtue
itself, when attesting to a fact for the network, validating information, or providing another
measurable benefit to the network.
Since Virtue will have intrinsic value on the Verus network, there will be methods for
transferring it through wallet ownership – for cases of probate or other necessity – but such
behavior as a tool for trading in virtue will not provide a secure or intended method of
11

exchange.
The Proof of Virtue model will effectively be a modified form of PoS that is not based
just on monetary value, but also on long term measurement of contribution, which will affect
trustworthiness and earning power in the Verus network. The intent is to provide opportunities for more people to participate in the growth of a positive functioning network and
to prevent potential attackers from being able to easily buy their way into an attack, adding
yet another layer of security.
We expect to keep the PoW component as part of Verus security system for an indefinite
period of time. We also expect to leverage the dPoW security of Komodo and its notarization
into the Bitcoin blockchain as well.

3.3
3.3.1

Polls, Voting, and Elections
The Importance of Secure Polling

A great deal of research has delved into the best way to achieve confidential, verifiable, and
transparent (CVT) elections electronically – with a few notable systems actually used in
real life situations. These attempts, however, have been plagued with significant limitations,
limitations that almost always risked either revealing the identity of a voter and thus eliminating confidentiality, or allowing attackers to impersonate legitimate voters, and put the
validity of the vote into question [1].
This was shown in one of the first majorly adopted North American electronic voting
systems, the Diebold AccuVote TS, which was announced in the year 2000 [4], at a time
when, as a result of the Florida 2000 presidential election, the general public began to
recognize numerous flaws in the widely-used punch card voting system [2]. Despite multiple
studies discussing electronic voting systems – studies which clearly warned of security risks
such as insider threats, issues with auditing, and network vulnerabilities – by 2004, the
Accuvote TS system was deployed for major political elections in 37 US states [2], resulting
in multiple serious problems that impact the legitimacy of numerous election results since,
due to inherent flaws in its design that were never fully addressed [3].
Firstly, the “solution” that the system introduced to deal with voters submitting multiple ballots – and to solve the ballot anonymity problem – was to issue a single personal
voting ‘smartcard’ to each vote. This smartcard, unfortunately, did not contain a complete
identity, but instead contained a common election key among voters that voting machines
simply checked to determine if the card belonged in the correct election [2]. The lack of
any cryptographic unique identification on these cards was a significant security flaw, as
user-programmable smart cards and readers almost instantly became commercially available
on the internet for reasonable prices – making it extremely easy to mass produce homemade
copies. Furthermore, due to the lack of a truly secure boot loader, operating system, or application, the system had numerous potential attack vectors, many of which were quite simple
for an adversary. For example, any attacker with access to the operating system had the
ability to modify ballot program files through the standard Windows Explorer application
already included on each machine.
These serious failures in previously adopted electronic voting systems have literally
changed the course of history, affecting the outcomes of major political elections that
12

decide the state of world politics. This highlights the importance of creating a system that
is truly confidential, verifiable and transparent, and indicates the magnitude of one problem
we plan to solve with Verus.
3.3.2

Running, Recording, and Scaling Polls - Transient, PoS Chains

Using autochains, Verus will dynamically create parallel voting chains on demand for each
poll in its ecosystem. This creates improved, isolated security and allows for scaling in a
virtually unlimited manner.
The Verus wallet, which will be used for voting, will also have the ability to validate blocks
through proof-of-stake, blocks which, when enabled, will allow voters who are validating the
election to earn rewards. These rewards will either be paid in Virtue for intrinsic polls, when
available, or from outputs of the payment transaction that instantiated the poll. When a
poll is complete, results are posted back to the main Verus chain. The chain used to run it
can then be archived or deleted, and it is typically abandoned.
3.3.3

Poll Content and Distributed Hash Tables

While blockchains make excellent databases for permanent, non-repudiable records and public key management, they are not the best solution for storing large amounts of data, due
to their massive duplication across the distributed network. Instead, a better model for distributed storage would look something like the Interplanetary File System, or IPFS, which
is a peer-to-peer file system based on the Kademlia [18]19 protocol in an implementation
that currently works well enough to use as storage for create/read/delete operations using
hash commitments on the Verus blockchain to represent and index content.
While we are evaluating the IPFS, we are also looking at other distributed hash table
solutions, such as Open DHT [26]. A key requirement for the Verus network is that mobile
devices be able to participate in its operation. Open DHT is an efficient C++ library intended
for use with small devices. IPFS does not yet seem to have much support for mobile at this
time, though it does have a Javascript library that can be used from the browser or mobile
apcancations [24].
Until IPFS is supplanted with another implementation, Verus applications will assume
that when off-chain content is needed, it should be retrieved from IPFS, and for future
compatibility, we will add a storage and version specifier. In order to store supporting poll
or other content for dApps, the content owner must ensure that the content is pinned in
IPFS, until it is no longer needed. By Phase IV, or earlier if there is significant demand,
we expect to either support or provide a blockchain-metered storage solution that is more
integrated and automatic to use for poll makers. Two options for such a system include
a cross-blockchain integration with a decentralized payment/pinning solution, or to offer
a simple service that charges in Verus to store and automatically pin content for specific
lengths of time in IPFS.
3.3.4

Voting Models and Types of Polls

Verus will support numerous types of polls, those that use weighted or unweighted voting,
that seek to expose truth or opinions, and polls that rate and choose collectively. In order to
13

create a sensible taxonomy for polls, one that people will understand, we define the following
types of voting:
1. Multiple choice
2. Weighted multiple choice
3. Ranking
4. Rating
We also define the following types of polls:
1. Polls to classify
2. Polls to select
3. Polls to rank
4. Polls to rate
We do not expect Verus to support all voting and poll types in the early phases. In fact,
until Phase IV, the Verus core team plans to focus on known requirements of multiple choice
and weighted multiple choice voting. During or after completion of Phase IV, expanding
support for voting and poll types will be higher priority.
Each type of Verus poll may support confidential or public voting, live or delayed poll
results, online or offline vote authorization, and lottery selected vote authorization. We will
roll out working vote models in phases, as well, initially providing solutions for weighted and
unweighted selection voting, which fits well for both political and opinion polls as well as
content classification and ID verification.
3.3.5

Intrinsic Polls

Once Virtue is activated, the Verus network itself will run specific, intrinsic polls that will
be regularly available to identities with Virtue, based on a statistical lottery and weighted
by their actual measure of Virtue. Participating in these polls, which will be used to classify
content and perform basic, human verification functions, enables participants to help the
system classify and rate content across Verus applications, enabling a rating system rather
than censorship to allow each voter to set preferences for the ratings of polls they may wish
to see.
Miners who provision autochains for these intrinsic polls will get the same rewards as
miners setting up autochains for commissioned polls. The content for these polls will be taken
from other polls and will be used to classify and rate those polls for easier discoverability
and the user experience of poll services.

14

3.3.6

Privacy

There is a fair amount of confusion among the public about privacy on the blockchain. One
common belief is that Bitcoin transactions are private, when in fact all Bitcoin transactions,
as well as the public addresses between which value is transferred, are public information [21].
As with the Verus token and its blockchain, poll autochains will also support zk-SNARKs
to ensure that votes which have not been disclosed by a voter remain provably anonymous
to all other parties, while still being verifiable by the person who holds the keys to the
address that cast them. Currently, based on standard smartphone hardware specifications
and the memory requirements of zk-SNARK transactions, mobile phones cannot generate
z-transactions. In coming releases of new Zcash technology this year, the z-transactions will
be more efficient and still provide the same privacy guarantees. When these technologies
are available, we will work to support them on the Verus chain, as well as use the increased
efficiency to enable z-transactions and all Verus features on mobile devices as soon as possible. Until that is available, we will work to provide a mobile wallet for Verus transparent
transactions.
3.3.7

Content Classification

While Verus is designed to provide invaluable tools to people across the world, any system
without censorship will also inevitably allow the underbelly of humanity to show through.
That means that while we would want all people to participate, we recognize that in order
for that to provide the most positive experience for all participants, we must use the Verus
poll system itself to recognize, rate, and classify the content on its network, enabling those
who provide such a service through participation in polls to earn, while enabling the selective
filtering of content based on value judgements and classification of honest populations.
While we recognize that the best early use case for such capability is in rating and
classifying non-intrinsic polls themselves, the ability to classify content is a fundamental
strength that Verus will increasingly develop over time. At first, we expect such classification
to be applied to relatively simple tasks for humans, such as identifying toxic comments, hate
speech, or categories of information. Even though these types of classification systems have
largely employed machine learning systems running against privately curated training data,
our vision is for Verus content classification to enable people to earn, as they classify content
better than any machine learning system, but in a way that can be followed by the best
machine learning algorithms, and generalized at scale.
3.3.8

Truth vs. Opinion

When classifying content, especially when you start to consider challenging classifications,
such as misleading, propaganda, generally accepted fact, accurate versions of history, vs.
classification of what should generally be accepted as toxic or rated content that people could
reasonably answer objectively, one must consider the difference between fact and opinion.
Selecting the winner of an election is a matter of expressing an opinion. Classifying content
according to level of toxicity is a question of determining the factual answer to the question:
what does the majority of the voting population believe the classification to be. Determining

15

whether an image in one photo is the same image as that from another is a question with
an objective, if not determinable answer.
To ensure that Verus polls support polls that attempt to discover accepted truths, facts,
and even credible emerging arguments, Verus voters will often be able to stake and either
earn or lose Verus and in later phases, Virtue, by answering in a manner that matches
consensus. For other polls, which are recognized as opinion polls, all answers are equally
valid contributions.

3.4

Random Sampling as a Service

The Verus system will randomized selection for many of its functions, similar to its Phase I
PoS block validation system. Blockchain lotteries will be generalized and used for selection
of participants in randomized polls and in other cases where pseudo-random sampling is
desired. The general principles behind Verus lotteries are the same, regardless of whether
something similar to Algorand [29] for guaranteed selection or an original Verus algorithm
based on difficulty, such as Verus PoS is used for selection. Lotteries use the blockchain as a
random oracle and are based on the assumption that the exact value of a specific block hash
from a past block in the chain cannot be modified by a byzantine participant to weigh the
odds in their favor.
3.4.1

Participating in a Lottery

Since the Verus network is completely decentralized, all lotteries, including PoS, are potential,
and there is no central server selecting and sending messages to those who qualified in a
lottery. When lotteries are implemented as a general feature, if you would like to participate
in any Verus lottery or poll that is distributing tickets via lottery, you must first determine
that you qualify for the poll’s requirements. You will then need to submit a transaction that
proves that you have a valid claim and spend the output transaction of the lottery ticket to
your address using that proof. By default, that spend will authorize you to be a validator
on the autochain for the poll you are participating in, by providing you with the currency
of that poll. You may validate the poll by leaving your wallet running, getting potential
rewards in Verus or Virtue for both activities.
Lotteries will be useful for selecting subpopulations based on identity and claims people
make about themselves or that others claim about them, which they are willing to share.
While detailed discussion of Verus identity is beyond the scope of this paper’s release, the
Verus system will provide self-sovereign identity with the ability for identities to make very
flexible claims and have them attested to by other identities. For example, a lottery may look
for males between the ages of 18 to 25 among identities willing to share that information,
which will even be possible to verify as strongly as through a validated passport or driver’s
license. Other polls may not require the same evidence backing claims. Polls may also have
restricted voting, such as local political polls, where verification and authorization for the
poll must be provided explicitly, often by mail to a physical address or in person in the form
of a QR code or electronically delivered transaction to your Verus wallet.

16

3.4.2

Proof of Stake Lottery

A block validation lottery is a somewhat different form of lottery which allows you to claim
the right to validate a block and its associated reward based on proof-of-stake (for autochains)
or 50/50 PoW/PoS (for the main chain). The lottery requires that a prior block hash 100
blocks past combined with a qualifying UTXO of the destination public key hashed with the
staking block height and then divided by the UTXO value must be under the current proof
of stake validation difficulty. By dividing by the UTXO value, Verus weights proof-of-stake
or proof-of-virtue in proportion to the amount of stake or virtue in the UTXO. If no one who
qualifies to validate a block is online or no one responds with a submitted block validation
in a certain amount of time, the blockchain will wait until someone mines a block using
proof-of-work.
3.4.3

Ticket Harvesting Lotteries

There will be multiple ways to acquire tickets to participate in any particular poll. The
manual ways emphasized so far may include receiving a poll with QR code in post or email
or perhaps directly from someone taking a poll. In addition to these direct ways to receive a
voting ticket, Verus will enable polls to be posted on the poll blockchain as transactions, the
tickets for which are distributed from its outputs by lottery. This will work when the Verus
ID functionality is available, and will enable polls to require presence of specific claims or
attestations on an ID, as well as the number of participants to select in the poll by creating
one transaction output for each, which is spendable by a cryptocondition [17] that defines
the lottery conditions and random difficulty. The difficulty determines how often a particular
block will match any attempt to harvest a ticket from that block.

3.5

Machine Learning Integration

Verus enables humans to share and expose human knowledge through voting mechanisms to
make decisions, express opinions, and classify accurately. The data used for that classification, as well as the classifications or decisions themselves provide an ideal source of training
data for machine learning systems across any domain of human knowledge or opinion. As
corporations gather, sequester, and learn from massive amounts of personal data in order to
compete and boost their bottom line, rather than accrue to society’s benefit, these massive
private databases serve to affect and influence human populations by knowing more about
them than others, or even than they know about themselves.
Since Verus enables humans to use voting mechanisms to classify and make decisions,
and stores the results of this process in IPFS and on the blockchain, we will train machine
learning algorithms on these results over time, allowing them to eventually classify and make
decisions consistent with human decisions and values at an even higher scale. This will enable
Verus to perform certain tasks automatically, such as the recognition of false or incorrect
identification data among participants in the system, the initial classification or rating of
certain content that can be overruled, but may not be appropriate for all audiences, and much
more. The end result of this is a more secure and trustworthy network, built on consensus
and trustless principles, leveraging worldwide human knowledge as a base of information and
machines for scale.
17

A major Verus advantage over almost any other system in its use of Machine learning on
human data is the innate privacy it provides to those whose data is used for learning, along
with the default that all resulting information be made public, unless those making polls pay
the Verus community a going rate to keep the data for themselves. In today’s society, the
goal of most machine learning systems is to match consumers with products they are likely to
buy and/or manipulate them into an actual purchase, thus generating revenue. This creates
a situation that can create unintended negative consequences when algorithms disregard any
positive or negative effects its predictive abilities may have on society [23]. For example, if
the algorithm recognizes that people with depressive episodes are more likely to gamble, and
thus buy airline tickets to gambling-oriented locations, such as Las Vegas, it will advertise
those airline tickets to those people. In the Verus system, machine learning algorithms will
be able to learn from human beings, while being limited to accessing only the data users
permit, and at the same time, being unable to easily target any specific individual.

3.6

Verus Mobile Polls

18

In addition to a desktop wallet that supports Verus and other Komodo platforms or compatible applications, mobile support is a high priority and will provide yet another layer of
convenience for users, enabling them to use, earn, and spend Verus in everyday life. We intend to provide a Verus mobile experience that functions as a wallet, self-sovereign identity,
provides easy access to the polling and earning applications, and is intended to server as an
extensible application browser, capable of supporting additional applications that leverage
the Komodo or compatible ecosystems. While we have already begun thinking about and
storyboarding design and development of user experiences, we do not expect any mobile
experience to be ready until completion of Phase II at the earliest. Even when the first
mobile experiences are ready, they will not include the support for private transactions that
we intend to enable as a foundation for confidential, mobile polling and communications. To
get a feel for the way we envision Verus experiences working in practice, below is an example
of some poll screens from early designs.

4

Implementation and Roadmap

After researching options from building the technology ourselves to leveraging unreleased
advanced projects, to using one of the few well thought through blockchain application
platforms, we decided to start building the Verus project as a friendly fork of Komodo and
its asset chain technology, enabling us to both become a contributing member of and also
enhance and extend the Komodo platform as Verus builds blockchain platform technologies
and real world applications of PBaaS.
By leveraging proven zk-SNARK zero knowledge privacy technologies and Komodo’s
delayed proof of work (dPoW), which notarizes the main Verus blockchain into Komodo’s
blockchain, which is then notarized into the Bitcoin blockchain, we underpin Verus with a
foundation of state-of-the-art privacy, security, and interledger transaction capabilities as
our baseline. Above that, we have already developed advanced features that further enhance
security, improve decentralization, and prepare for the implementation of autochains and
proof of virtue.
We will maintain our own open source fork of the Komodo platform and collaborate with
the Komodo team when possible to develop new features or capabilities that can be accessed
cross-chain by projects across the Komodo platform and even other blockchains that are
simply compatible with Komodo’s Interledger Protocol implementations. We will maintain
our development as an open source project and contribute back to the broader open source
community, as we leverage the contributions of others that have made it possible for us to
begin realizing our vision as a community.
All that said, roadmaps are never perfect. Unless we significantly underpromise and
prioritize a date so highly that no feature or capability is important in and of itself, targeting
timeframes and milestones without specific target dates allows us to be ambitious in our goals
and adapt to a changing world as we deliver. Even in Phase I, which we have delivered as
of the writing of this paper, we adjusted our plan, and in an uncharacteristic turn of events,
delivered even more than we had originally planned. We do not expect that to always
be the case, and we will focus more on correct and complete phases than specific dates
when possible. Sometimes, as with any major endeavor, the right choice is to recognize an
19

unexpected opportunity or obstacle, take two steps to the right or left, and only then proceed
forward.
For the purpose of this whitepaper, we will discuss four phases of the Verus vision. We do
not see these four phases as a completion of the vision as much as four phases of an ongoing
mission to advance Verus and its contribution to society that we can currently express. From
its inception and throughout the project, the Verus chain will serve as our fungible value
chain, and use of Verus tokens on this chain will be the core value around which we continue
to develop the Verus vision.
The first Verus chain, which is already available at the time of this white paper’s release,
includes zk-SNARKs for privacy, both transparent and private addresses, a brand new CPUmineable hash algorithm for proof of work, a brand new proof of stake algorithm, and a
unique emission schedule among fair launch cryptocurrency projects. Each phase of our
project’s development will introduce capabilities and experiences that provide independent
value on their own, further leverage Verus Coin to power operation, and create a foundation
upon which to build the next phase.

We intend and hope for the Verus project to become a worldwide, inclusive community
effort, which welcomes and rewards those who contribute. Although we articulate these first
four phases here, we see these phases as just the beginning, and we hope you will join us by
participating in and contributing to the Verus project to make our world a better place.
20

4.1

Phase I – Mainnet – 50/50 PoW/PoS – Time Locks – Fair
Launch

In phase one, the Verus main network began with a slow start and 15 minutes advance notice
at 7:15am GMT, Monday, May 21st, 2018.
The Verus network began emitting first 0 block reward, rising linearly each block over
the course of 7 days until block 10080 to its peak of 384 coins per block. The Verus emission
schedule is as follows:
Era 1:
Block 0 - 10080 reward: 0 to 384, rising linearly and changing each block
Era 2:
Block 10080 - 53279 reward: 384
Block 53280 - 96479 reward: 192
Block 96480 - 139679 reward: 96
Block 139680 - 182879 reward: 48
Block 182880 - 226079 reward: 24
Era 3:
Block 226080 - 1277279 reward: 24
Block 1277280 - 2328479 reward: 12
Block 2328480 - 3379679 reward: 6
. . . halving indefinitely every 1051200 blocks (approximately 2 years)
We also added another fair twist on the launch that we believe will contribute to a more
stable value growth in the Verus currency, without any unusual risk of dumping by any single
party. During the first 5 months, Verus will have an accelerated reward curve for mining
and staking, with a halving every month. During the first two months, when the block
rewards are at or above 192 Verus, mined blocks will have time locked coinbase transactions,
preventing spending, staking, or transferring of those coins for a period that varies from
approximately 3 months after the genesis block, based on numbers of blocks, to 2 years and
3 months. These time locked coins provide a smooth release of the Verus currency supply as
well as incentive to all of their owners to support the long term success of the Verus network
and project.
From the very beginning of its operation, Verus operated with a dual proof of stake /
proof of work mechanism for all participants. Verus mining with the VerusHash algorithm,
as of this point, is a CPU-only algorithm, designed with a Haraka512 V2 [30] core to be
quantum secure and to maximize performance on modern CPUs. While VerusHash was
designed to be CPU-optimized and did not begin life with GPU or ASIC miners capable of
beating CPUs in its mining, the Verus developers have no illusions that it is possible someone
might develop either a GPU or ASIC-based miner that could be meaningfully superior to
CPUs.

21

To ensure that such a solution if developed, remains open, jl777, lead developer of the
Komodo Platform, has offered a 1 Bitcoin bounty to any developer who can make and
publish in an open manner, a GPU miner for the VerusHash algorithm that can significantly
outperform the current CPU miner. In order to win the bounty, the source code for the
miner must be available under open source licensing. To be eligible for the bounty, any
implementation must be able to perform 5x better than a modern, high thread-count, high
clock-rate CPU on a GPU costing under $1000. By bringing up the Verus network this way,
we established an immediate, baseline set of functionality, above which we can build out
our project and community around a functional coin and project, as we stay in sync with
advancements in the underlying Komodo platform.
Verus phase one release was pre-announced on Bitcointalk [28] with zero premine, and
team members mined and staked along with everyone else to generate coins. In addition to
coins mined by individual team members for their own benefit, the Verus developers intend
to donate most of their mined and staked earnings to a community Verus foundation along
with other donating community members who will join us, in order to support the ongoing
growth and project development by core developers and the community for years to come.

4.2

Phase Two – Autochains, Polls, Verus Mobile

As soon as we completed phase one, we entered phase two, which includes release of this
white paper, activation of the community through donations of some of our mined coins,
and a push to finish planning for, development and release of mobile support, autochain
capability, and the ability to setup, and then easily run CVT polls at scale.

4.3

Phase Three – Identity, and Proof of Virtue

In phase three, we plan to further improve the mobile experiences, implement the identity system, including support for strong, decentralized identity and attestations, separating
photo IDs and other photo content into components that can be separately verified in unbiased human polls. At this point, we intend to support optional KYC strong identities, via
both notarization of identities as well as poll-based identity verification. This will also be
the first phase that supports Verus chain validation PoV enhanced PoS.

4.4

Phase Four – Integrated Machine Learning, Content, Storage

In phase four, Verus will begin to truly leverage the foundation built in phases one, two, and
three by focusing on broad content classification capabilities for off-chain content, improving storage management support in its distributed hash table implementations, supporting
storage monetization in some way, and providing open source, public implementations of
machine learning systems that can learn from data on the Verus network to solve real world
challenges of today and tomorrow.

22

5

Forward Looking Statements

This paper includes predictions, statements of intent, discussion of plans, estimates or other
information that might be considered forward-looking. While these forward-looking statements represent our judgment and expectation of what the future holds, this is not an offer
or solicitation to purchase any product, good, service, or security. All statements herein
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results of the Verus Project’s
development to differ materially. Furthermore, we intend to use the Verus blockchain as
our open source development platform – contributing these technologies under permissive
licensing for the betterment of society, not focusing solely on profit of anyone affiliated with
the Verus project. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance, especially in any financial
decision, on these forward-looking statements, which are subject to modification, update, or
change for legitimate reasons both within or beyond our control. By expressing our vision
and goals, the Verus Core developers are not obligating ourselves to revise or publicly release
the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information
or future events.

23

References
[1] S. Estehghari and Y. Desmedt, Exploiting the client vulnerabilities in Inter-net e-voting
systems: Hacking Helios 2.0 as an example, Proc. 2010 Electron. Voting , no. Section
4, pp. 027, 2010.
[2] Kohno, Tadayoshi, et al. Analysis of an Electronic Voting System. IEEE Computer
Society Press, 2004, Analysis of an Electronic Voting System, http://avirubin.com/
vote.pdf
[3] Hursti, Harri. “SECURITY ALERT: May 11, 2006 Critical Security Issues with
Diebold TSx .” Black Box Voting, Black Box Voting, Inc, 11 May 2006, http:
//www.blackboxvoting.org/BBVtsxstudy.pdf
[4] Diebold Election Systems. AVTSCE source tree, 2003. http://users.actrix.co.nz/
dolly/Vol2/cvs.tar
[5] Willet, JR, et al. “OmniLayer/Spec.” GitHub, JR Willet, 24 Jan. 2017, http://github.
com/OmniLayer/spec
[6] Stone, Andrew. “Bitcoin Cash Scripting Applications: Representative Tokens
(OP GROUP).” Medium, Medium, 16 Oct. 2017, http://medium.com/@g.andrew.
stone/bitcoin-scripting-applications-representative-tokens-ece42de81285
[7] Abed, Gabriel, et al. “Colu Local Network.” Colu Network, Colu Technologies DLT
Limited, Jan. 2018, http://cln.network/pdf/cln_whitepaper.pdf
[8] Assia, Yoni, et al. “Colored Coins White Paper - Digital Assets.” Google
Docs, ColoredCoins, June 2017 , http://docs.google.com/document/d/1AnkP_
cVZTCMLIzw4DvsW6M8Q2JC0lIzrTLuoWu2z1BE/edit#heading=h.wxrvzqj8997r
[9] “Ethereum Blockchain Congestion Triggers Outrage.” Global Coin Report, Global Coin Report, 12 Dec. 2017, http : / / globalcoinreport . com /
ethereum-blockchain-congestion-triggers-outrage/
[10] Sedgwick, Kai. “The Ethereum Blockchain
coin News, Bitcoin News, 4 Dec. 2017,
ethereum-blockchain-congested-cats/

Is Congested by Cats.” Bithttp : / / news . bitcoin . com /

[11] “Delegated Proof-of-Stake Consensus.” Delegated Proof-of-Stake Consensus BitShares, Bitshare, 8 June 2015, http : / / bitshares . org / technology /
delegated-proof-of-stake-consensus/
[12] Buterin, Vitalik. “A Proof of Stake Design Philosophy – Vitalik Buterin –
Medium.” Medium, Medium, 30 Dec. 2016, http://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/
a-proof-of-stake-design-philosophy-506585978d51
[13] Poelstra, Andrew. “On Stake and Consensus.” WP Software, 22 Mar. 2015, http:
//download.wpsoftware.net/bitcoin/pos.pdf
24

[14] Nakamoto, Satoshi. “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.” Bitcoin.org,
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[15] Lee, James. “Komodo: An Advanced Blockchain Technology, Focused on Freedom.” Komodo Platform, Komodo, 12 Mar. 2018, http://komodoplatform.com/wp-content/
uploads/2018/03/2018-03-12-Komodo-White-Paper-Full.pdf
[16] Mercer, David, and Duke Leto. “HushList Protocol Specification.” Git Hub, http:
//raw.githubusercontent.com/leto/hushlist/master/whitepaper/protocol.pdf
[17] Thomas, S., and R. Reginelli. “Crypto-Conditions.” IETF Tools, 9 Jan. 2017, http:
//tools.ietf.org/html/draft-thomas-crypto-conditions-02
[18] Maymounkov, Petar, and David Mazieres. “Kademlia: A Peer-to-Peer Information System Based on the XOR Metric.” Parallel & Distributed Operating Systems Group,
http://pdos.csail.mit.edu/~petar/papers/maymounkov-kademlia-lncs.pdf
[19] Benet, Juan. “IPFS - Content Addressed, Versioned, P2P File System.” IPFS, http://
ipfs.io/ipfs/QmR7GSQM93Cx5eAg6a6yRzNde1FQv7uL6X1o4k7zrJa3LX/ipfs.draft3.
pdf
[20] Kamvar, Sepandar D., et al. “The EigenTrust Algorithm for Reputation Management
in P2P Networks.” The Stanford Natural Language Processing Group, http://nlp.
stanford.edu/pubs/eigentrust.pdf
[21] “Some Things You Need to Know.” Some Things You Need to Know - Bitcoin, 2015,
http://bitcoin.org/en/you-need-to-know
[22] “NEM Technical Reference.” NEM, http://nem.io/NEM_techRef.pdf
[23] Tufekci, Zeynep. “We’re Building a Dystopia Just to Make People Click on Ads.” TED:
Ideas Worth Spreading, Sept. 2017, http://www.ted.com/talks/zeynep_tufekci_
we_re_building_a_dystopia_just_to_make_people_click_on_ads
[24] “IPFS js-ipfs Javascript Github Repository” https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs
[25] Thomas S., et al. “A Protocol for Interledger Payments”,http://interledger.org/
interledger.pdf
[26] Savoir-faire Linux Inc. “A C++ 11 Distributed Hash Table Implementation,” http:
//github.com/savoirfairelinux/opendht
[27] Goldstein, Jacob, and David Kestenbaum. “The Island of Stone Money.” NPR, NPR,
10 Dec. 2010, http://www.npr.org/sections/money/2011/02/15/131934618/
the-island-of-stone-money.
[28] Toutonghi, Michael. “[ANN] Verus (VRSC) - Zk-SNARK Privacy, CPU-Mining, 50/
50 POW/POS, Fair Launch.” Bitcoin Forum, Simple Machines Forum, 21 May 2018,
http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4070404.0
25

[29] Gilad, Yossi, et al. “Algorand: Scaling Byzantine Agreements for Cryptocurrencies.”
MIT CSAIL, 24 Sept. 2017.
[30] Klbl, Stefan, et al. “Haraka v2 – Efficient Short-Input Hashing for Post-Quantum Applications.” International Association for Cryptologic Research, 24 Dec. 2016.

26

