Privacy, Community, Power
Verus consensus non emitur
“True consensus cannot be bought” - anonymous

Michael J. Toutonghi

Michael F. Toutonghi
June 12, 2018

Alex R. English

June 12, 2018
Abstract
The Verus Project aims to establish a secure, privacy-centric, fairly-distributed
cryptocurrency. But – beyond this currency – Verus seeks to become much more than
a zero-knowledge privacy coin, one with two completely new highly-decentralizing proof
of work and proof of stake algorithms.
In addition to payments, decentralization, and privacy features, Verus Project
plans include its direct use as a currency for provisioning scalable and secure public blockchains as a service (PBaaS), for Verus applications built upon these parallel
chains to scale. What this will do is simple: It will enable all people – as well as
all nodes on the Verus network to participate in and benefit from a decentralized,
blockchain service economy.
This paper details the Verus vision and describes the function of Verus as its own
platform, and also as a member of the Komodo platform ecosystem, in the context of its
first applications. Verus core applications will provide a foundation to build additional
applications and services, which will leverage Verus’ automatically created blockchains,
called autochains. Autochains – or PBaaS – will be provisioned and notarized by the
Verus blockchain miners and stakers, in exchange for Verus currency.
Autochains will be validated through proof-of-stake by their user populations. In
addition to extremely scalable, dynamic, publicly-secured autochain applications, this
will add a dynamic isolation and security component to applications that can also
create, manage, and verify transactions on the main Verus chain or any other Komodocompatible, Crypto-Conditions [17], Interledger Protocol [25] enabled blockchains.
The ways we apply this technology to our world – to our biggest contemporary
challenges – has the potential to completely remake the fabric of our society.

1

Preface
Human progress leapt forward with the invention of money. Money enabled worldwide,
trade-based economies to move from a primitive, barter-based system to a consensus-based
valuation and accounting of verifiable, storable, divisible, and scarce commodities as early
currencies of exchange.
Even in recent times, actual or perceived scarcity and authenticity of source, whether
genuine gold, an original giant coin of Micronesia [27] – or government backed notes with
trusted fiscal management and the ability to exchange for oil – provide the foundation of
value upon which, ultimately, human resources are bought and sold.
What blockchain does is straightforward. It enables the creation of cryptographic tools
and applications that do nothing less than provide us with a new future of programmable
money. This programmable money integrates directly with existent accounting functions
and, eventually, with all automated services. Blockchain technologies provide humans with
a new, verifiable solution to ensure scarcity, authenticity of source, inbuilt transferability,
fungibility through privacy, and programmable rules. More than that, fully peer to peer,
public blockchains disintermediate and provide tools that offer the opportunity to revitalize our economic systems and societies, potentially creating a more equitable and honest
economic framework for all.

About This Document
This vision paper is not intended as a technical reference, but as a vehicle to communicate
our vision, our plans, and our thinking – as we work on realizing the true potential of Verus.
All technologies described are based on a clear understanding of methods intended to
implement each solution but – as with any project – the specific implementation details will
be refined as we actually realize their functionality. To supplement this vision paper, we
will follow soon after its initial release with a white paper, describing the new technologies
developed for Verus Coin’s initial launch, what benefits they provide, and provide details of
their implementation. We will continue to supplement this vision paper with white papers,
as appropriate, for each completed phase of Verus Coin’s development, in the future.
As of this point, we have completed Phase 1, having released Verus Coin with zero
knowledge privacy, two brand new algorithms combined for simultaneous CPU-mineable
proof of work (POW) and fair proof of stake (POS) consensus, in-wallet mining and staking
on PCs, leverage of and support for advanced Komodo platform technologies, and wallets
and miners for every major PC operating system.

2

1

Introduction

Information vies for our attention in today’s digital world, trying to convince us of what
product to use or which politician to believe. We are watched and measured as we react to
that information, in order to convince us what to buy or to believe. This is an active process
that exploits our lack of online privacy – combined with weaknesses in human psychology –
in order to make profit; extracting value from, even affecting our behavior, learning about
and influencing each of us individually to open our wallets or add our voices to another’s
agenda.
No single person can digest and fully understand – let alone verify – a fraction of the
information thrust at us in daily life. We are told to give up on the notion of privacy and to
trust networks of companies with our most private data, our identity, our credit histories, our
location, our habits. We are also told that our voices are lost in the digital sea of information.
Yet how is this the same sea through which we are laser-targeted based on correlating our
behaviors to learn so much about us, individually? What if these technologies could be
turned towards the benefit of society, first – and then allowed to support businesses, in that
context?
We on the Verus team believe it is possible to support businesses and governments
requirements with digital systems that: 1) respect your privacy, 2) give you control over
your data, and 3) enable you to speak your mind with the anonymous authority of an
authorized voter or member of a community, in a way that can directly be heard and affect
actual change.
Before we explain how, it would help to understand the shared beliefs behind our vision
for Verus. These beliefs underpin everything we build into the Verus network:
1. We believe that every human has ideas, knowledge, and value to contribute to our
society. By using technology to reward people for their contributions, we can enable
each of our verifiable, yet anonymous voices to be heard as a collective truth.
2. We believe that those who contribute positively over time to the system should be
rewarded for that contribution and provided with ongoing incentive.
3. We believe that a world-scale, peer-to-peer system that can enable humans to be
queried directly, confidentially, verifiably – and in a transparent manner – can directly
provide populations of people and the world with valuable, transformative tools.
With Verus, we will introduce digital tools to enable us all to build a better world
together. We will monetarily incentivize – with our technologies – behavior that strengthens
communities and institutions. This is the thing that’s missing in the online world today:
Fiscal incentive for communal behavior built into the very fabric of its function.
The Verus Project’s tools will make it easy to create an identity – or multiple identities
– on the Verus multi-blockchain system, which can accumulate value and even have multiple
personas, each to represent a facet of your identity as a whole. This reflects how we might
express identity in our personal or professional lives, where some situations call for provable credibility, yet others require no more information than what you might reveal when
encountering a casual stranger.
3

Each identity will have its own, unique address. Unless its owner reveals information
to link two or more identities, it is cryptographically hard – meaning virtually impossible
– to correlate one identity to another. At the same time, the owner of an identity can still
cryptographically verify statements made about identities under their control, attesting to
identity properties (such as passport, age, height, citizenship, photo, etc.) as strongly as
is possible with today’s digital technology. As part of the Verus vision, to be described in
more detail in later phases, we intend to support fully decentralized verification of identities
that can provide as strong verification as today’s centralized systems. At the same time, we
believe it is important for practical reasons to enable compatibility with centralized forms of
identity and to enable people to optionally support KYC in identities. To enable a smooth
bridge between centralized and decentralized identity systems, today’s ID systems, including
biometric and government issued IDs, will be supported via centralized or decentralized
verification to enable use of Verus identity in situations that require conformance to knowyour-customer (KYC) regulations. Theseforms of ID, however, are not required to establish
or use even strong, decentralized identities on the Verus network.
Verus autochains, will operate parallel to the main Verus chain and enable large-scale
applications – such as polls or elections – to run simultaneously without concern for congestion or excessive fees. Autochains will enable poll application users to provision their
own secure blockchains just by using the application – spawning dynamic parallel chains
that can process thousands (or potentially millions) of transactions per second when needed.
Autochains will operate by proof of stake, enabling each chain to have security isolated to
its direct user population. Autochains will also be backed by Verus notarization and block
time synchronization – providing the full weight of its PoW/PoS security layer as well as the
Komodo platform’s delayed proof of work (dPoW), to provide notarization all the way back
to the full power of the actual Bitcoin blockchain.
For Phase II, what we expect to be an extended development phase, we will work to
implement autochains and their first application in the world. We will eventually use them
to create, secure, scale, and perform polls for everything from classifying online content,
to identifying real public opinion, to actual, real-time elections for an organization or –
conceivably – a government.
Our goal is to make these polls easy to use from a PC or mobile device, yet industrial
strength and suitable for serious, secure elections. They will leverage the latest cryptographic
technologies for privacy – known as zero-knowledge proofs – to preserve confidentiality.
They will be:
• Confidential — No one but the voter knows who or what they voted for – unless the
voter discloses. Results of the vote can be withheld until the vote is complete, at which
time they can be released to everyone, simultaneously.
• Verifiable — Only voters that are authorized to vote can vote. Each voter can vote
only once. Each voter can look at the released results and see that their vote was
counted.
• Transparent — Anyone can validate the number of votes counted, and the number
of votes,each person or selection received.

4

• Secure — Our novel autochains – dynamic, security isolated, proof-of-stake (PoS)
blockchains – are layered over proof-of-work (PoW) and delayed proof-of-work (dPoW)
security, all the way back to the real Bitcoin blockchain through Komodo.
By default, the first layer of security is run by the actual voters, themselves. Together,
this provides unprecedented layered security both in the autochain and in delayed
proof-of-work, leveraging the network with the most hash power in the world.
We like to think that – on a Verus autochain – a 51% attack is called winning a poll.
• Scalable — Each poll is conducted on its own, automatically-created-and-validated
blockchain, operating under its own visible validation rules.