Title: November 2021 — Verus Monthly Recap
Article URL: https://medium.com/veruscoin/november-2021-verus-monthly-recap-f2406382e542
Content:

November 2021 — Verus Monthly Recap
The latest Verus updates on development, community, ecosystem and more. Subscribe to the newsletter here.

Next to the monthly recap on Medium, you can receive the exact same content through a newsletter. Subscribe here. I’ll keep things short and to the point.
Successful Mainnet Upgrade!
On Monday 29 November two new core protocol features successfully activated on the Verus blockchain. You can now use VerusID (NFT) Marketplace to exchange VerusIDs publicly and privately. And use Verus Vault to lock funds for security, vesting, trusts, inheritance, and more. [read full article here]. To ensure smooth operations, please update your wallet as soon as possible [download here].
🔒 ℹ️ Learn how to set up Verus Vault [read tutorial here].
Exclusive Partnership Digital Nation Entertainment
Verus ecosystem company Arkeytyp signed an agreement with Digital Nation Entertainment concerning the creation of high-quality digital worlds. Digital Nation Entertainment has committed to exclusively working with Verus on the blockchain side of their metaverse environments. Arkeytyp donates 50% of the proceeds from this relationship to the Verus Coin Foundation.
Earlier this month Digital Nation Entertainment released a digital environment for the movie The Harder They Fall (on Netflix) and the Verus community helped with the testing of this metaverse. This exclusive and exciting partnership with Verus, Arkeytyp and Digital Nation Entertainment is the beginning of a combined effort to bring the metaverse into people’s lives.

$175,000 USD Coin Sale VerusGear.com!
VerusGear.com did an exclusive gold, silver and bronze physical coin sale. In this first successful round over $175,000 USD worth of physical coins were sold. All proceeds go to the Verus Coin Foundation. The coins are the first of their kind physical objects attached to VerusIDs. On top of that, the owners of gold coins are connected to a special Gold DAO. Right now you can not buy any physical coins anymore. There will be more sales in the future so keep an eye out!
Get your Verus t-shirts, sweaters, stickers, mousepad, hat, flag and face mask now! 20% or more of the profit is donated to the Verus Coin Foundation.

TO SHARE: Marketing Comparison Materials
Please share these images whenever you have the chance! Download comparison images here [Google Drive]
For Miners: SRBminer and Nanominer Problems
Since the VerusID Marketplace and Verus Vault mainnet upgrade there have been problems for miners using SRBminer and Nanominer. Please use alternatives such as CCminer, hellminer and nheqminer for now [download here].
Thanks for reading. That’s it from me. Until next month!
Please subscribe to the monthly recap so you’ll get it each month in your mailbox.
